L1d3
====

L1d3 is our specialist simulation code for quasi-one-dimensional gas dynamics.
It is usually applied to the simulation of entire shock-tube or expansion-tube
facilities and has a role to play in the design of new experimantal machines.

Typical build and run procedure
-------------------------------
The new 2D/3D code Eilmer3 is built from source into an installation directory $HOME/e3bin/.  
A typical build procedure (using the default TARGET=for_gnu) might be::

  $ cd $HOME/cfcfd3/app/L1d3/build
  $ make install
  $ make clean
  $ cd ../../../lib/plot/build
  $ make INSTALL_DIR=$HOME/e3bin install
  $ make clean

You may need to add the installation directory to your system's 
search path and to Lua's search path.
On a recent Linux system, this could be done by adding the lines::

  $ export PATH=${PATH}:${HOME}/e3bin
  $ export LUA_PATH=${HOME}/e3bin/?.lua
  $ export LUA_CPATH=${HOME}/e3bin/?.so

to the .bash_profile or .bashrc file in your home directory.

If you install L1d3 in a directory other than the default,
then read and follow the instructions given for
running Eilmer3 from a directory other than the default
(see :ref:`Non-standard install of Eilmer3 <label-nonstandard-install-path>`).

Run a quick example of gas accelerating a piston::

  $ mkdir $HOME/work; cd $HOME/work
  $ rsync -av /home/peterj/cfcfd3/examples/L1d3 .
  $ cd L1d3/piston/
  $ ./run_and_plot_piston_sim.sh
  $ gv piston_log_p.ps

If you have ghostview installed, you should now be looking at 
a space-time diagram of the expanding gas.  
The upstream-face of the piston is the right, curved boundary.
 

Documentation
-------------
Report-13-98_ is the documentation for theory behind the Lagrangian 1-D program. 

.. _Report-13-98: ./pdf/l1d_98.pdf

Report-2005-09_ describes the newer, Python-based input format.

.. _Report-2005-09: ./pdf/l_script.pdf

